so the issue is financial transparency
from the time that they started donating
it kept changing so
like you said the first time they
donated was basically just covering
the cost of like a mobile phone a couple
of laptops things like that
as well as a very small salary for me
and you
then they said so that was a red flag
right obviously there's more to the
story here yeah
and then they said so from the money
how how much do you pay for like
salaries to
people that work with av and we said
this much per year and they said
oh so from that how much do you take
personally
so on that call there are other people
and to ask the question like that
so how much poor how much do you take
how much do you take
and we were just shocked this ain't
rocket science
if you're going to spend other people's
money you have an
absolute moral obligation
to explain to them why it is you're
taking their money
what it is you're spending on and how
much you stand to profit yourself
it just blows my mind that people like
paula nassau the leaders of anonymous
for the voiceless
people like earthling ed people like
james aspie
lack this concept i was just talking to
my girlfriend about it i had to reflect
nobody ever taught me
this concept like this idea of
transparency and accountability
my parents didn't teach it to me my high
school didn't teach me
we never studied it or talked about
university so i don't even know
where i get this from it's something so
simple that i think it is supposed to be
self-evident to people but whoever it is
you work with i mean whether it's on a
charitable basis or a collaboration
you better explicate this you better
talk this through openly with your
friends with your colleagues
what does transparency and financial
accountability mean to you and you and
you what does it mean to me and what
does it mean
to us now i have absolutely never been
in a situation where i had to pay myself
a salary from donations i think i
currently receive
150 dollars a month on patreon
and also thank you to my supporters
people buy me books
via the amazon wishlist and when they
buy me the when people donate a book to
me
the only thing they're expecting in
return is that i'm going to read the
book
which i got to make time for that's a
significant that's a significant moral
commitment on my part that if i ask you
to buy me a book i'm going to read the
book that could be hundreds of hours
it's like be a lot of work
um i've never been in this position look
you make
simple clear comprehensible
accountable verifiable decisions about
money about where it comes from and
where it goes and then
nobody has any basis to complain so
if i were to collect donations uh
in order to print a vegan children's
storybook something interesting and
maybe we're going to pursue
not just publishing the book but getting
it made into an animated
cartoon uh let's say let's say it's an
animated movie for children let's let's
think big here okay
full length feature film animated film
whatever okay
um you can write into the plan from day
one uh that you're gonna pay everyone
involved a salary that is commensurate
with
that is equivalent to what they would
earn if they were a full-time employee
at starbucks in their jurisdiction so
you say okay in this thing like maybe
this grows out of control like when we
began we thought there were only going
to be two employees there's me and one
other person
but you know then we end up hiring
someone in australia and everyone says
oh well why are you paying this guy
uh sixty thousand dollars a year or
something it's like well
we made the decision that if we're
taking up all your time this is a
full-time job for you is helping our
charity or whatever that we were gonna
pay you as much
as a full-time employee at starbucks and
we looked it up
and here's how much you earn serving
coffee at starbucks in melbourne
australia or whatever we got the numbers
off the internet
this is what it is so this is how much
this person gets paid and if
you see this works in more than one way
let's say that person is unhappy
with their wish they're asking for for
an increase you say them well look
if you were working at starbucks this
all this time after
two years or three years you get this
much of a raise at starbucks
so you know what i can offer you a 15
raise because that's what you get after
working at starbucks for three years
like
but unless you calibrate what's
happening with the money in all
directions
it's sorry it's so simple but it's just
mind-blowingly dishonest to me when
james aspie comes on camera tells you to
donate more and more
when there's no accounting for what
happened with the past five years of
donations
nobody knows where that money went what
was that what was spent on him being in
vacation in bali indonesia
him going surfing him going on cruises
all this shitty that's all you do see
james asked me when you see his
lifestyle you see his you know you see
him on permanent vacation
and he comes to the camera and he says
hey you should donate more because you
know he makes a lot less money
than you think he does he says oh people
say he's a millionaire i wonder
how people got this idea that he's
familiar so well you know he makes more
less money than you think it is why
wouldn't you say the amount of money why
wouldn't you just say
this is how much people donated this is
how much went to these project goals
this is how much went to salary that's
it just break and say what your
standards are
if james aspie believes he should make
more than a surgeon
i think that's [ __ ] insane but maybe
he has donors who say you know what i
feel
james aspie is doing something that's
just as important as performing surgery
in hospital
so if a surgeon earns a hundred and
fifty thousand dollars a year then okay
i'm i'm comfortable with james aspie
paying himself 150
dollars if you're just accountable and
transparent they can make that choice
now
stick with my own hypothetical scenario
i
start my own foundation i'm paying
people this let's say there is a medical
doctor
let's say it's someone who's actually a
vegan heart surgeon
and he or she is willing to come on and
join our vegan organization and start
advocating for and talking about
veganism and they want to join what
we're doing as a full-time job
i'm probably in a position where i have
to say to them and i have to say to the
donors
look i can't pay you as much money as
you would make
as a surgeon also
the nature of the work is not as hard
you don't have to wash your hands this
often
you don't have to be up at four o'clock
in the morning in hospital performing
this surgery okay
so here's what we're gonna do i'm gonna
look at how much
a full-time nurse in a hospital would
make
they're not going to pay you 50 of that
and i'm going to tell that to all the
donors i'm going to say look
i can't pay this guy or this woman the
same amount i'd pay an employee
starbucks like i'm going to pay this
person more than i'm paying myself
because the reality is this person is a
surgeon
and they represent a certain level of
you know scientific
literacy background education they're
bringing specialized expertise and
skills to organization
so i've got to pay them more and i was
looking around for a metric for how much
more and i decided i'm going to pay them
as much as a nurse would make full time
because what they do here is maybe
relatively easy
this is what i'm proposing and they've
accepted so this is how we're moving in
and then the donors can talk back to you
maybe some of the donor stuff you say no
they believe that this person shouldn't
get paid more than
a starbucks employee maybe some of them
say look if you want to really keep this
person on
for five years you have to pay them more
than that so
you know we're like maybe their donors
say look why don't you bump it up to
being
a hundred percent of what a nurse would
make in a like even though they're a
surgeon maybe they should make as much
as
a nurse you know those are the kinds of
discussions you can have
if you just fundamentally subscribe to
this bedrock notion of transparency and
accountability
because what you are doing in the
charity a non-profit sector
is spending other people's money and why
why it's not so you can go on vacation
in valley indonesia it's for whatever
purpose advocating veganism so on and so
forth
so look uh the details of this fracas
between paul and assal and joey
carbstrong are not that interesting to
me
personally this fundamental question of
democratic
accountability is interesting and then
there's this other interesting thing
that shareholders democracy you know
brings into businesses
and you know even in the case of this
this you know crummy
two-person board of directors they
repeatedly say they do have a board of
directors but only two people sit on it
paul beshear and his girlfriend assal
great call that a bomb director
but they said important writers like two
people on it you know as soon as you
open up
your organization to even just a little
bit of democracy this way like whether
it's a company that has shareholders
that has investors
or you're a charity that has donors who
start to play the role
of an investor what you get is that
democratic
element of debate of new ideas coming in
and of people
saying to you hey maybe you don't have a
monopoly on good ideas
it's quite possible this youtube channel
and the discussions we had about what av
is doing right and what they're doing
wrong mostly what they're doing
wrong it's quite possible that the
critique of this youtube channel
influenced these discussions because one
of the ideas that came up in these
in this confrontation between the donors
and the directors of this charity he
said hey look you know what
having a mask having people wear a mask
that shows a white male face with a
mustache and beard
doesn't make a lot of sense i i think
my youtube channel was the first youtube
channel to discuss this
i i don't think anyone else even on a
podcast discussed it if i'm wrong
credit to whoever else points out i'm
not making the accusation of
racism that's simplification and i think
people would call my
argument as about right of allegation of
racism
in order to discredit it or in order to
simplify it to the point of absurdity
what if you have a group of black people
in jamaica
carrying out this form of pro-vegan
activism this type of street protest
they're all black people wearing a mask
that makes them look like a white man
with a mustache and beard
what sense is that what does it mean and
the crowd in jamaica
probably 90 percent to a hundred percent
of the people who are going to see this
worse are also black
it's jamaica it's not racism
it just doesn't make sense it's just
bizarre it's just when like people say
what what is this about why are you
black people
dressed up as white people what i mean
depending on what the protest is i can
like you know if you're a black person
and you're
dressed up as donald trump and you're
wearing a donald trump mask
okay you know everyone understands what
you're representing what what you know
this is what the narrative function of
this costume is
you're black people protesting against
slaughterhouses and for veganism and
you're wearing this white man's mess
it really doesn't make sense it's really
incoherent
japan i spoke to i had a very unpleasant
conversation with
some av protesters based in japan i
talked to
i heard people from japan with different
uh perspectives of this different
aspects
within japanese culture this is really
[ __ ] up
it's really distracting it's really
counterproductive and among other things
in case you know
japan has a massive culture of dressing
up in costumes in so-called cosplay
it trivializes the the nature of the
demonstration many ways the way
other japanese people react to this is
like oh you guys are like fans of a tv
show like
again it's not as simple as racism but
okay you're a bunch of ethnically
japanese people
wearing this mask of a white man with a
beard
with these tvs showing this clip and
then there's a crowd of people that's
getting 90
or 100 percent ethical japanese
and you know ironically this this
movement uh av
anonymous for the voiceless it began in
chiang mai thailand
because it was linked to durianrider and
paul bashir
going to chiang mai thailand and trying
to directly imitate durianrider's
very lucrative permanent vacation model
of
vegan slacktivism and you know again
what is the meaning what is the
significance at that time
thailand was a military dictatorship
they've now returned to
semi-democracy they have elections again
they have a mix of
democracy and military dictatorship
today to be brief but they've taken some
steps towards
return to democracy in town but at that
time
a bunch of white people in chiang mai
thailand wearing this mask
sorry yeah it was it was white people
protesting in front of a crowd of thai
people
wearing this mask and they're not even
thinking through the absurdity of
well if you start recruiting and
involving local people so then it's thai
people or
it's incoherent it's bad it's wrong the
fact that you have seats at the table
that
some donors are allowed to have a voice
are allowed to negotiate with you
means that new and different ideas start
to come into the organization in this
case the donors were so upset
fundamentally with the lack of financial
accountability with the fact that they
didn't know
how much power to sell we're making
let's let's be clear for me
the laugh out loud hilarious point in
this video
perfectly parallel to james asked me
saying like oh
i'm not a millionaire i make less money
than you think
paul and a sal sit there and deadpan
sirius say that
they decide to pay themselves a very
modest salary
okay what's your idea of modest do you
think you should make as much as a
surgeon
do you think you should make as much as
a full-time
employee at starbucks and nobody else
gets to be involved in that conversation
this is something you decided for
yourself
we all have to assume that you know you
are good-natured enough you are detached
enough
you are professional enough to not pay
yourself
twice as much as you deserve and who's
involved in that debate
as to how much you deserve just by
keeping this private
just by refusing to discuss and publish
openly how much you are paid
and how you justify that just just do
that one act alone
inevitably your own donors are not going
to trust you your own
followers your own collaborators your
own volunteers
are not interested because they're going
to be standing there saying hey look i'm
working for free
i'm volunteering i don't know how much
you're making
and i don't know what percentage of the
donations are going into your pocket
and all of those questions can be
answered
like with one click of your mouse it's
sitting on your hard drive it's probably
sitting on your desktop the excel
file of your names paul and a sal and
your 28 other employees i have no clue
how they how do they manage to employ 30
people in total
in organizing silent vigils
okay how much is that worth silent
vigils you're organizing people
standing in silence you're not
publishing a children's storybook you're
not translating into 20 languages you're
not creating an
animated film you're not creating a
documentary
you're not performing surgery you're not
even giving away free vegan pancakes or
vegan hot dogs or
manufacturing vegan chocolate bars all
kinds of things we can put a price on
what is the price you're gonna put on
silent
vigils and paul and assal
being the [ __ ] who sit in a
microphone and make excuses
for one shitty scandal after another
because you keep saying politically
offensive insensitive things on
instagram
what's that worth how much should your
salary be
you say you pay yourself a modest
salary and james aspie says he makes
less money than you think
don't leave it up to my imagination
let's let's not get into a contest of
who what what i think would be a modest
salary for you what i think you're worth
as opposed to what you yourself
think you're worth and in this case your
donors kept demanding to know
how did you set these up how do you
decide how much and they got so
upset with you you so totally
discredited yourself that they walked
they canceled their support they called
in joey carbstrong to be an auditor
they're frustrated with your answers
and they let do you think there's a
lesson
for all of us to learn here paul do you
think there's a lesson for the future of
the vegan movement
first things last last things first this
basic
concept of transparency accountability
of just being
reasonable with your donors i don't know
where i got i don't know where came from
my parents didn't live that way my
parents didn't teach me that
was never discussed in school
what's the opposite of transparency
concealment what's the opposite
of accountability
if you're not interested in transparency
and accountability
what are you interested in huh paul
i mean really people like to disrespect
my crew but the fact is that you know my
name and i don't know you
we basically received almost half of it
and um as of recently
and that's when the donor approached us
and they were saying that they had some
issues with us
and they wanted to clarify some things
they apparently were receiving emails
and messages from people we don't know
how
people knew who this donor was because
we never this is the first time we're
talking about this i think i think in
the past we have said
we do have a significant donor who does
contribute in a big way to av
but we've never really talked about it
so we don't know how people
found this person's contact well we have
our suspicions
right but we we do know that people were
emailing and messaging them and saying
that for example av doesn't send
chapters any money or
av is well let's be specific about what
we heard
right we only heard that what you just
said and also av
is racist yes because we have a white
mask right the guy fawkes mask that is
one of the
let's be specific about the claims that
we heard so what
um also it's a guy yeah a white man
is sexist as well as racist and then
also racist because of the blm post we
made where we called out the protesters
for holding a decapitated
pig at their protests promoting
anti-oppression with
oppression right we felt as animal
rights activists
we felt like we have to say something we
do need to yeah in future we will
yeah what we went back on
and apologized for was the nature of how
we addressed it
because we felt we could have shown some
warmth towards black rights
yes there was a request that felt like a
demand actually
it wasn't as seriously delivered as the
swearing
point and the post
but it was a
very stern request
and the request was for us to have a
board of directors replace
the way that av is structured currently
so that
you and i would only have a seat at the
table of many
so we do have a board of directors right
now it's just two people
on it right yeah yeah right exactly
instead of 20. no one person makes the
decisions
no so the issue is financial
transparency